Indicate correct branches to checkout to build CycloneDDS from source (#5678)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Installation/RMW-Implementations/DDS-Implementations/Working-with-Eclipse-CycloneDDS.rst

Building from source code is also another way to install.

First, clone Cyclone DDS and rmw_cyclonedds in the ROS 2 workspace source directory.

> To determine the correct branches to checkout, you need to find what versions are specified in your ROS distribution's ros2.repos file, which you can find in ros2/ros2 repository.

Reviewer: We can just link to it:

```suggestion
To determine the correct branches to checkout, you need to find what versions are specified in your `ROS distribution's ros2.repos file <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros2/ros2/refs/heads/{DISTRO}/ros2.repos>`_.
```

> Alternatively, if you have curl installed, you can run the following code to fetch the correct branch/tag needed for CycloneDDS:

Reviewer: Very minor suggestion, for consistency:

```suggestion
Alternatively, if you have curl installed, you can run the following code to fetch the correct branch/tag needed for Cyclone DDS:
```

Also, I think it's safe to assume that `curl` is installed, since it's even in the installation instructions when installing ROS 2 with the Debians: https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debs.html#enable-required-repositories. I'd remove "if you have curl installed," but you could keep it if you really want to.

.. code-block:: console

   $ RMW_CYCLONEDDS_BRANCH=$(curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros2/ros2/refs/heads/${ROS_DISTRO}/ros2.repos | yq '.repositories."ros2/rmw_cyclonedds".version')

>    $ CYCLONEDDS_BRANCH=$(curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros2/ros2/refs/heads/${ROS_DISTRO}/ros2.repos | yq '.repositories."eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds".version')

Reviewer: Can we use standard CLI tools instead of `yq`? That should be possible with some `grep`/`awk`/whatever. I'd tell users to manually get the `version:` values of `ros2/rmw_cyclonedds` and `eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds`, or use the given commands.

However, I believe the `version:` for `ros2/rmw_cyclonedds` will always be the distro (e.g., `kilted` for Kilted), so we don't really need to check the `ros2.repos` file for it. We can do that strictly for `eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds`.

Author: the script was just a suggestion to facilitate the process and hopefully make it easier for other users

it is possible to use grep/awk instead, but it would make the code significantly less readable and reliable, so I would rather just remove the snippet and only ask users to lookup the versions themselves if that is the case

Author: for reference, this would be the code using grep/awk:

```
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros2/ros2/refs/heads/kilted/ros2.repos | grep -A 3 "eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds:" | grep "version:" | awk -F': ' '{print $2}'
```

if you are fine with this, then I could change it, but I will leave it up to you :)

Reviewer: I think a command using a non-standard tool like `yq` is less useful (and not really reader-friendly) compared to using standard tools, even if they're not very readable and possibly not very robust.

> ```
> curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros2/ros2/refs/heads/kilted/ros2.repos | grep -A 3 "eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds:" | grep "version:" | awk -F': ' '{print $2}'
> ```
> 
> if you are fine with this, then I could change it, but I will leave it up to you :)

I think that's OK. Just introduce it as an alternative to manually extracting the version, like you did initially. Note that I think you can just use `awk '{print $2}'` instead of `awk -F': ' '{print $2}'`.

Author: changed accordingly

And now clone and checkout the code:

.. code-block:: console

   $ cd ros2_ws/src

>    $ git clone https://github.com/ros2/rmw_cyclonedds ros2/rmw_cyclonedds -b {RMW_CYCLONEDDS_BRANCH}
>    $ git clone https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds -b {CYCLONEDDS_BRANCH}

Reviewer: The `{}` are for [macros](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/The-ROS2-Project/Contributing/Contributing-To-ROS-2-Documentation.html#macros). What you need here is `${}`, and then above you should `export` the values so that they can be used here.

Also, like I mentioned above, we can just keep using the branch corresponding to the current distro for `ros2/rmw_cyclonedds` (and we can use the `{DISTRO}` macro instead of the `{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}` macro).

```suggestion
   $ git clone https://github.com/ros2/rmw_cyclonedds ros2/rmw_cyclonedds -b {DISTRO}
   $ git clone https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds -b ${CYCLONEDDS_BRANCH}
```

Author: ah my apologies, I missed the dollar sign to properly dereference the variable, thank you!

but exporting in this case shouldn't be needed here right? or is it just a convention to always export variables in the documentation?

Reviewer: Ah yeah, it's simply my fault: `export` isn't needed.
